hey what's up this is a brief by my
standards video in response to a comment
on YouTube the content of this is not
gonna come as a shock to anyone who's
been familiar with my channel for say
one year maybe not even for one month
but it's an interesting comment and my
reply really I think reflects the kind
of funny background I have in Buddhist
philosophy and how that continues to in
some ways enrich my involvement in the
political discourse here on vegan
YouTube as veganism takes its first
faltering steps towards being a real
political movement okay Matt blender
writes to me and says quote whenever I
would here freely enduring writers say
quote we helped them so much and they
are just ungrateful how dare they go
against us close quote I would just
cringe
I personally was inspired by freely to
go vegan and I'm thankful I found her
but that doesn't mean I over anything
even if she shouted me out and helped to
increase my subscriber count or my view
count I would be grateful that she did
that but that doesn't mean I'm now
forever indebted to her and can never
criticize her I felt the same way when
vegan last called a vegan cheetah just
because they were friends doesn't mean
yes to enable his bad behavior he needed
a reality check and he took that as a
betrayal period I don't get it
period I've only seen a couple of Jax
videos but I found to be confusing not
really having any sort of direction and
definitely desperate for views close
quote I'm gonna read my reply but you
know I'd also say those are things I can
sympathize with I can sympathize I mean
that's why I wanted to have jack on my
channel so I wanted to promote him and
do a YouTube do do a Skype conversation
with him and post on YouTube as a as a
podcaster what have you um you know I
think that's probably true that he is
lacking direction and his desperate
reviews um you know but I'm not
necessarily gonna be sworn full or
hateful towards him for that that's
that's kind of a human human
understandable human reaction to being
marooned in the situation he's in
because he bought himself a plane ticket
to paradise he got there figured out
paradise wasn't at the other end of that
plane - anyway I think he is in a tough
spot in terms of his transition away
from the cult-like subculture within
veganism and hopefully he makes a
transition to be engaged with a more
meaningful
durable part of this vegan thing we got
going on all right here is my reply as I
as I wrote to Matt blunder there's an
image of a ringing Bell the fact that a
bell wakes you up in the morning or
alerts you to a fire saves your life or
suddenly changes your direction doesn't
mean that the Bell knows something you
don't know and it doesn't mean that you
should respect or revere the Bell in
fact it doesn't even mean that you
should trust or rely on the same Bell
again I think that many many people had
a sense of gratitude toward freely or
other vegan personalities who happen to
play the role of the ringing Bell in
alerting them to the reality of meat
consumption etc so like I said the intro
that really comes straight out of my
background and put its philosophy taking
that image and putting that forward that
way um I really wanna say above that
this is what people ask me all the time
these might laughter fake no it's
completely sincere I'm laughing all the
time at the absurdity of my daily life
at the what's become normal in my life
but yeah part of what makes my life so
absurd is that I am someone who made a
transition from having this kind of deep
background in Buddhist philosophy
Buddhist textual study etc etc to now
playing the role of one of the you know
clowns in the chorus clamoring for uh
you know cultural and political change
towards creating some kind of vegan
society on any scale I would settle for
a small town in Michigan going vegan
okay which what do you want um but you
know for sure this reflects the the
practice I had have said recently that
you know even my experience running a
blog gave me practice for dealing with
what I'm dealing with now on YouTube
definitely my education in parliamentary
democracy and political science and
politics that such prepared me for I'm
doing on YouTube
but it's also kinda interesting that
once in a while the discourse and
debates that went on within Buddhist
philosophy and within Buddhism as a
religion prepared me for answering this
kind of question so yeah the fact that
the Bell woke you up in the morning the
rain Bell saved you from
fire burning your house down doesn't
mean that you owe the Bell the sense of
gratitude of fealty and obviously this
has to do with in case you don't know it
has to do with the role of gods in
Buddhism in Buddhism they do believe in
God's plural roughly similar to ancient
Greek pillar plurality of gods but they
don't actually revere the gods in the
way that Christians do nor even in the
way that the ancient Greeks do because
there's a sense that the gods don't know
anything that human being wouldn't know
and they definitely don't know anything
that they don't know the special things
that the Buddha knew and that the Buddha
came came into this world to to teach
blah blah blah